24th of July, 2023

Initially thought we’d just need to increment and decrement the life counters. But I remember when using these things in person the app would keep track of how much you’d just added/removed, which it would display for about 3 seconds. For example if you mashed the “subtract” button 4 times, it would display the new life total with 4 subtracted, but also a little bubble indicating -4. And if you clicked “add” before this disappeared, it would change the bubble to -3. So I’m thinking we might want to do something like keep track of how much the user has clicked in local react state, and then if they haven’t clicked it for 3 seconds or whatever we submit an “updateLifeByAmount” to the state and reset the local adjustment to 0.

It just occurred to me that it makes sense to allow for tracking more than just 2 players. Obviously it should default to 2 but we could totally allow for more. If that’s true we need to adjust how our system works to account for this. It means players are more like entities that can be added or removed.

I’m going to try using uuids for player ids. This is so overkill it’s disgusting but I want the practice.

Small discovery around getting the app to fill the height of the device. The the html element is the root of all web pages, and does not have a default height of 100%, so this must be changed. In addition the body inside the html must be given a height of 100%. And finally, in react apps there is a div inside the body with the id "root". This div does not default to 100% either and must be given that as well.

We've managed to add the main features pretty quickly. Next I want to add the timed adjuster I described above. Clicking plus or minus will do 2 things: set a local state value for the amount to adjust the player score by, and start a timeout function which will adjust the player score by the local state vaue. When the plus or minus are hit anytime, this will add/subtract to the local state value, and reset the timeout function. When the timeout function triggers it will reset the local state value in addition to changing the player state. We'll also have to add some fun css to make changes clear.

Adding the timed adjuster wasn't too much of a problem. However I've found that the animation to make the indicator disappear is trickier than expected. I need to use a separate timeout to trigger the animation because I need it to reset it... I think? There must be a more elegant way to do it.


25th of July, 2023

In zoom meeting someone mentioned onAnimationEnd in JS in regards to resetting a CSS animation. This could be what I'm looking for?

On review, it looks like simply removing and re-adding the animation does what we want. However we still have the bug of the score flickering sometimes. I believe this is because we're asking the redux state and local state to update at the same time, but they don't. It looks like the react state will lag behind the redux state sometimes, so the displayed score flickers an incorrect value for some milliseconds.

I think I'll try moving the score adjust and score into the same state value in redux. This might not be elegant or correct? But it should fix the problem. 

I have a different idea. What if instead of keeping a local state of a score adjustment, we kept track of an entire score and adjustment object: 
{
	newScore: number,
	adjustment: number,
}
This entire object would normally be null and so we'd display the redux score. But we'll define it on adjustment click, and in that case we'll display the score from this adjustment object instead. Once the animation finishes we'll submit an update to the redux state and set the object to null. With this, regardless of which score we're displaying, it will be the correct value, so there will be no flicker!

Our new system for changing score state seems to work correctly, but now our animation reset logic is broken. What's disturbing to me is I don't understand how they could be related, which means I have a fundamental misunderstanding of how this all works. Either way, we need to revisit the animation reset.

Finally we found a way to restart CSS animations that's consistent and clean. It is technically a bit hacky, but it seems to be an "accepted" hack. Here's my best summary: To restart a CSS animation we remove it from the DOM and re-add it. We remove it by getting our element and setting the animation style to "none"
element.style.animation = "none";
Then the hacky part. We have to trigger a reflow of the DOM, we can do this by simply asking for the width or height of the element:
void element.offsetWidth;
The "void" there indicates we're not doing anything with that value. Now that the reflow has been triggered, we only need to re-add the animation:
element.style.animation = "5s my-cool-animation";

In summary it's:

element.style.animation = "none";
void element.offsetWidth;
element.style.animation = "5s my-animation";

That was a major hurdle for this project. Next I think we should focus on responsiveness. Here's a few things I was thinking about:

Horizontal/vertical orientation player cards depending on window size.
Column or row aligned cards depending on window size.
Options bar in different positions depending on window size.

We also need the ability to add/remove players. I think next we should add a phone friendly options bar that stays in between 2 player cards if there are 2, and goes to the top if there are 3 or more. We also need to account for a 1 player only situation. Hmmm, I don't want to deal with modals quite yet, so let's try just adding an options bar with an "add player" button, and we'll add a remove player button to the player cards.

While working on adding players, it occured to me that it might be worth redoing how we adjust and track player scores. I have an alternative idea to our current system of temporarily committing to making an adjustment. We eventually want to be able to produce a log of score changes. So I thought what if instead of keeping track of the players score, we simply log all changes and infer the player score from those changes? I think this feels better since it's relying on a single source of truth for the player score. Additionally, instead of temporarily committing to making an adjustment to a score, I think we should immediately log that adjustment, but temporarily maintain a reference to that change in the component. Clicking increment or decrement will continue to make changes to that specific change log, and it's only after the fade-away period has ended that we lose the ability to change that entry in the score log. Yes, I like this a lot. But perhaps we'll commit to finishing our player add code first.


26th of July, 2023

We decided to commit to adding a "inProgressScoreTransaction" slice, and deriving player scores from all score transactions and a inProgressScoreTransaction if relevant. This seems to work well. We're currently working to make sure the page is responsive. I feel as though I should use a library like Tailwind or something to do this but it hasn't seemed necessary yet. Right now we're trying to make the score adjustment buttons look correct regardless of layout. The adjustment indicator is tricky because no spot looks good for it.
